>> Burke Holland: Well, we already talked
about prettier inside of JavaScript files.
We also need to talk about some
very essential keyboard shortcuts.
I'm gonna come back here to the GitBook.
And I'm putting keyboard shortcuts in
pretty much every single one of these
exercises here.
So for the first three, you're gonna get
five, three to five keyboard shortcuts.
I think there's like 15 total that I
give you throughout the whole amount of
exercises.
And those are the 15 that I
feel like are most important.
You don't need to know
all 400 plus keyboard
keyboard shortcuts in Visual Studio Code,
that is too many.
I know that Vim people insist that that
the editor is better because they only
have to use the keyboard.
And how do you know if somebody uses Vim?
>> Burke Holland: Don't worry,
they'll tell you, right?
So you don't have to be like that, but
you do want to use your
keyboard as much as you can.
You're going to wanna reach for
your mouse to do a lot of
things in Visual Studio Code.
When you reach for
your mouse, just ask yourself,
could I do this with a keyboard shortcut?
Do I remember Burke doing this
with a keyboard shortcut?
And then stop, go look up what that is,
and then do it.
It's gonna make you slower initially,
it will, but
your brain is really good at optimizing.
And it's gonna figure out, it's a lot
easier for me to just use this keyboard
shortcut, and then you'll be astonished at
how quickly your brain catches onto that.
Human beings are remarkable creatures,
your brain is always looking for
the easiest way to get something done.
And if that's a keyboard shortcut,
that's what you're gonna use.
>> Burke Holland: All right, so
let's open up our index file
here in our exercise three, and
I have added a SVG element
down here at the bottom.
You don't have to worry
about that just yet, but
that's the only thing that I've
added to our projects before,
along with the requisite JavaScript
to make this thing actually work.
One of the things that I use most often
in VSCode is the ability to move lines.
Now, when we're moving a line, like let's
say we wanna move this title line up above
the link line, normally, we highlight
the line, cut it, and then paste it in.
By the way, you can still do that.
By the way, if you didn't notice,
you don't have
to highlight a line to cut it in VSCode,
you can just cut it with the cursor.
You don't have to highlight it,
that's just the default behavior.
Same thing for copy,
if you Ctrl+C on a line,
it gets the whole line on
the clipboard and you move on, so
you don't need to highlight and
then copy or paste.
There's also an easier way to
move things around in VSCode, and
that's to use the oOption key on the line.
So if you're on the line,
you can move lines around simply by
holding down the Option key and pressing
up or down, and you can move lines around.
If you grab a chunk of lines like this,
then you can move them all around in one
block with the Option up and down arrow.
You will move that one a lot.
You'll use that one a lot,
you will move lines a lot.
Another thing that you'll do
is you'll duplicate lines,
and a lot of times we copy and
paste to do this.
You don't need to copy and
paste in VSCode to duplicate.
What you can do instead, is you can
use Option+Shift and press down or
up, and it would duplicate
whichever line you're on exactly.
So I can do down, or I can do up,
you can't tell the difference, but
it's duplicating them up and down.
Let's go ahead and pull this out.
You will duplicate lines a lot,
it's another thing you do a lot,
that's another keyboard shortcut that
you really, really need to know,
it makes your life a lot easier.
Another thing that you'll
do is you'll delete lines.
And again, a lot of times we need do that
we grab a line, highlight it, delete it.
Instead of doing that,
learn the keyboard shortcut, Cmd or
Ctrl+Shift+K, that deletes lines.
Again, you're saving yourselves
keyboard strokes here by
not having to highlight lines and
then delete them or
put them on your clipboard in some other
fashion, Cmd+Shift+K is your friend.
So that's moving,
duplicating, and deleting,
memorize those keyboard shortcuts.
The next time you try to do that with
copy and paste or highlight and delete,
stop yourself, go back and
use the proper shortcut.
Let's scroll down here to the bottom and
take a look at this SVG element.
Now, I made this SVG element myself.
And the reason why you know that's the
case is because it's really, really ugly,
there's a lot of it.
When I said I made myself,
what I did was I opened up Sketch,
I made a light bulb,
and I saved it as SVG.
So I've pasted that in here, and the
reason I've done that is it allows us to
change the bulb color
with the application.
So if I go to the app here,
it's currently broken, see this bulb?
This is the SVG by the way, and
then it puts the color at the bottom.
But because there's different elements
here, whenever I change the color,
I can actually change the color of
just this SVG circle up at the top,
because it has its own separate
element inside the HTML.
The problem with that is that
it makes this look really bad.
So this file is now way longer than it
needs to be and it's hard to look at.
So to make this easier on your eyes,
you can fold the code.
So if you come here on this line and
open the command palette with Cmd or
Ctrl+Shift+P, and say fold,
and then just select fold.
And that will fold all of that SVG so
that you don't have to look at it anymore.
Now notice, I'll save this,
if we reload the window,
>> Burke Holland: Still folded, okay?
So folding persists however, if you
close the window completely, go out and
then go to a different project and come
back, it will be expanded again, you'll
have to fold it again but it's pretty good
about persisting through your session.
Folding works not just inside of HTML but
it also works inside
of code files as well.
So let's fold this back again.
>> Burke Holland: So
let's go over to our app file here.
And let's say,
we wanted to fold this constructor here.
What we can do is come over to this side,
you might see these arrows here,
you can do it this way.
And you can also fold like this.
The other thing is there's
a keyboard shortcut,
I don't use this a lot cuz I
don't fold code too often.
Usually, I fold it and
then I forget about it, I don't unfold it.
But it is Cmd, and then Option,
and then the bracket here,
the left parentheses if you will.
So we should be able to fold like that and
we can fold, and you see that VSCode
recognizes it knows, so it can fold at
the method level, it knows how to do that.
It can fold here at the constructor
level and knows how to do that.
So it recognizes the code structure and
can fold at the proper levels.
>> Speaker 2: Does the code have to
be formatted for it to recognize it?
>> Burke Holland: No, it does not
have to be formatted for our eyes,
it does have to be correct.
So like if you got extra braces in all
over VSCode, it will know what to do.
You can also specify your
own foldable regions.
So you don't have to fold based on
the regions that VSCode specifies,
you can specify a region
that you wanna fold.
So let's say, what we want to do
here is we just want to fold and
hide all of the interior or
internal methods in this class.
To do that,
we have to use something called a regions.
If you have used Visual Studio
before your familiar with regions,
this is a concept that makes sense to you.
What we're gonna do here is come and
we're going to put a comment.
So I'm gonna put a comment here and
then I'm gonna do a hash tag,
hash tag, pound sign?
Hashtag.
>> Speaker 3: Octothorpe.
>> Burke Holland: What is it?
>> Burke Holland: Octothorpe,
nobody knows what that is.
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Burke Holland: And
we're gonna say, region.
And then we're gonna give it a name.
So we'll just call this one, let's
just call this region, Class Methods.
Let's come down to the bottom here,
right before the end of the class,
and we'll do end region.
>> Burke Holland: And if we come back
up here, out to the side, you can see,
we've got an arrow now.
And I can collapse this, and now,
I've got a region that I defined,
and I folded all the code.
Even better, I can add a description
here to make this more descriptive for
people and
let them know why I folded this code.
Now, interestingly enough,
this also works in HTML.
So you can add a comment here,
>> Burke Holland: I think it works
in HTML, verbose svg, written by Burke.
And then let's come down, here below that
the closing we should just fold this,
be a lot easier, wouldn't it?
Let's do that,
let's see here Cmd+Option, there we go.
And then below that, let's add a line,
and by the way, you can use the keyboard
shortcut Cmd and then the slash,
is this a forward slash or a back slash?
What's the one that goes this way?
>> Speaker 4: Forward.
>> Burke Holland: Forward slash, Cmd+/,
Ctrl+/, adds a comment line automatically.
It will also comment outlines like this,
your cursor can be anywhere in the line,
and it will come in and out.
And then we can do endregion.
>> Burke Holland: Let's see here, hashtag,
octothorpe, sounds made up, endregion.
And then we can actually
fold it by region here.
So regions work inside of HTML and
they also work in your JavaScript to
allow you to create custom regions.
All right, that's code folding, and if you
have somebody like me writing your SVG,
you're definitely gonna wanna know
about code folding and region folding.